#labels Phase-Support
=Netbeans plugin overview=

This page is an overview of implemented features in the hAtom plugin for Netbeans 6.1 and 6.5

==Code completion==

Code completion works in the same way as the HTML code completion module. It's activated with a CTRL+SPACE shortcut; a popup is opened and hAtom keywords are filtered while typing more letters. The completion popup id deactivated with the pressure of ESC button or once a keyword is accpted using the ENTER key.

[http://netbeans-hatom-plugin.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/hatomPluginNBcompletion.png http://netbeans-hatom-plugin.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/hatomPluginNBcompletion.png]

The plugin also shows documentation about hAtom elements in a dedicated doc panel. The panel is opened just above the completion popup, as shown in the image below.

[http://netbeans-hatom-plugin.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/hatomPluginNBdocum.png http://netbeans-hatom-plugin.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/hatomPluginNBdocum.png]

==Code Highlight==

The default color for hAtom keywords highlight is magenta. This setting can be changed using the *Tools > Options > Fonts & Colors*, selecting the "*HTML*" value in the language drop down menu and "*hAtom keyword*" in the Category list, as shown in the picture below.

[http://netbeans-hatom-plugin.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/hatomPluginNBoptionWindow2.png http://netbeans-hatom-plugin.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/hatomPluginNBoptionWindow2.png]

==Validation==
Hatom validation process is started by clicking on the button with the microformats icon.
 
[http://netbeans-hatom-plugin.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/hatomButton.png http://netbeans-hatom-plugin.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/hatomButton.png]

For every file to be validated, a new output tab is opened, as shown in the picture below.

[http://netbeans-hatom-plugin.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/hatomPluginNB6.png http://netbeans-hatom-plugin.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/hatomPluginNB6.png]


The output result is printed on the output tab in the form of a sequence of an atomic report that shows the user:
* the error message
* the complete node that contains the error
* the path of the wrong node tag (if available) with the following form: _html > body > div_
* the total number of errors occurred
\\